Ginger Duck Gyoza with Ponzu Plum Sauce (Japanese Potstickers)

Masu Executive Chef Alex Chase
Makes about 50 pieces

1 package Japanese gyoza skins (about 50 per pack)
cornstarch for dusting
high-heat oil for frying
 
Filling:

12 oz. Napa cabbage (about 1/2 of a medium head), chopped very fine
1 1/2 tsp. Kosher salt, divided (cut in half if using table salt)
2 cloves garlic, minced or grated
2 tsp. fresh ginger, minced or grated
2 scallions, sliced into fine rings
1/2 tsp. freshly ground black pepper
3 Tbsp. soy sauce
2 Tbsp. rice wine
1 lb. ground duck (chicken or pork can be substituted)

 
Plum Dipping Sauce:

1 1/2 c. Japanese ponzu sauce
3 Tbsp. neri ume paste (3 Tbsp. extra plum sauce can be substituted)
6 Tbsp. Chinese plum sauce
3 Tbsp. Asian chili oil

Put chopped cabbage in a colander and toss with 1 tsp. Kosher salt.  Set aside for at least 20 minutes to allow for some of the liquid to drain off.

In a large bowl, combine 1/2 tsp. Kosher salt, garlic, ginger, scallions, ground pepper, soy sauce, and rice wine.

Squeeze as much liquid as possible from the cabbage and add it to the soy sauce mixture.  Add the duck and mix gently.  Chill until ready to fill the gyoza.

In a small bowl, whisk together the plum dipping sauce ingredients: ponzu sauce, neri ume, and plum sauce.  Add the chili oil last, mixing gently.  The oil will float on top of the sauce.

Bring a large pot of water to boil.  Line 2 baking sheets with wax or parchment paper; dust one of the sheets with cornstarch.  Lightly dampen a towel to cover the gyoza as they are prepared.  Set out a small bowl of water.

Hold one gyoza sheet in the palm of your hand.  Place a teaspoon of filling in the center of the sheet.  Dip a finger in the water and run it around the edge of the sheet to dampen the edge.  Fold sheet in half, over the filling, being careful not to get filling on the edges.  Pinch the center of the edges together, then pleat the sides making 5-7 “Z-folds” as you go.  (Stephanie’s note: I looked at a few demos online; google “folding gyoza” for tips.)

Set finished gyoza on the non-cornstarch baking sheet as you go, keeping them lightly covered with the damp towel.  After all the gyoza are filled, boil up to 6 at a time in simmering water for 4 minutes.  Using a slotted spoon, transfer to the cornstarch dusted baking sheet as you go.

When all of the gyoza have been boiled, heat a large skillet over medium-high heat.  Add oil and when it is hot, fry the bottoms of the gyoza, several at a time without crowding the pan, until the bottoms are nicely browned.  Serve with dipping sauce.