Skinny Cinnamon Crumb Coffee Cake

For a dairy-free version just swap out the regular yogurt for dairy-free yogurt, and swap the regular butter for vegan! Also – if you like a thicker crumb topping (think New York Style) double the amount of the streusel topping

Yields 9 servings
Ingredients:
For the Cake

    1/2 cup reduced-fat sour cream, at room temperature
    1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
    1/4 cup unsalted butter, softened
    1/4 cup low fat plain yogurt
    3/4 cup granulated sugar
    1 large egg yolk, at room temperature
    1 large egg, at room temperature
    1/4 plus 1/8 tsp. table salt
    1 1/3 cups cake flour
    1 tsp. baking powder
    1/8 tsp. baking soda

For the Streusel Topping

    1/2 cups plus 2 tbs. granulated sugar
    1/8 teaspoon salt
    1/2 cups all-purpose flour
    1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
    2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted

Preparation:

    Make the Streusel - In a medium bowl, whisk together the sugar, salt, flour, and cinnamon. Add the melted butter, stirring well until combined. Set aside while you make the cake.
    Make the Cake - Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 350°F. Grease bottom and sides of a 8-inch square metal cake pan with baking spray.
    In a small bowl, whisk the sour cream, vanilla, and almond extract.
    In a large bowl, cream the butter, granulated sugar, and egg yolk with a wooden spoon until blended, about 20 seconds. Using a whisk, whisk in the whole egg and salt and continue to whisk until the batter is smooth and the sugar begins to dissolve, about 30 seconds. Whisk in the sour cream mixture.
    Sift the cake flour, baking powder, and baking soda directly onto the batter. Whisk until the mixture is smooth and free of lumps.
    Spread the batter evenly in the pan. Sprinkle the streusel over the batter. Bake until puffed and golden and a skewer inserted in the center of the cake comes out with only moist crumbs clinging to it, 28 to 30 minutes. Set the pan on a rack to cool for 15 minutes.
    Run a knife between the cake and the sides of the pan. Invert the cake onto the rack and remove the parchment. Invert again onto a serving plate, so the streusel is on top. Let cool at least 10 minutes before serving. This cake is best served warm.

